an Israeli attack on a humanitarian Zone
in the Gaza Strip has killed and injured
hundreds of people Israel says it was
targeting two Hamas commanders including
Muhammad daif one of the planners of the
October 7 terrorist attacks it's not
clear whether he was among the victims
but Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has restated his pledge to
track down every Hamas leader the Hamas
run Health Ministry in Gaza says at
least 90 people were killed in the
Strunk which took place on a camp for
displaced Palestinians in the southern
city of
hunus the moment Israeli missiles
hit the aftermath the smoldering Embers
of the al- maasi displacement Camp are
designated safe
Zone I was displaced 12 times this was
meant to be the safest area in K Yunis
the busiest
area my neighbors are elderly people
women and children they are all
civilians I was sitting in my tent when
the tents around me and this building
were hit we started running I got out of
the tent and ran into the street the
bombing was relentless the whole street
was full of bodies we started running
are these the humanitarian areas that
Netanyahu talks about there are no
humanitarian areas or safe
areas the Israeli Army say they were
targeting two Hamas commanders who they
claim were hiding among
civilians one of the targets was
Muhammad da Israel believes he was one
of the masterminds of the October 7th
Terror
attacks a Hamas official denied the
claims by the Israeli military accusing
it of intentionally targeting
civilians the attack on al- maasi is the
latest in a series of Israeli strikes on
areas in Gaza where displaced
Palestinians are
Sheltering we can speak now to
journalist balik sladin who joins us
from Tel Aviv balik Benjamin nety who's
just been speaking what's he had to say
about the strike
yes so Natan confirmed that the strike
happened and the target of the strike
was Muhammad Dave and his debuty as well
one of the senior commanders in KH yunes
the central part of the Gaza Strip Nat
didn't say that or didn't confirm
whether he was killed or not but uh he
said that Israel will actually um go
after every single Hamas leader and
specifically speaking about Muhammad Z
who has has been a symbol uh in the
Palestinian um Minds in general but
specifically in Hamas and with all of
his knowledge and all of his
capabilities then we can say that if
that attack it did successfully kill him
then this would be the most significant
assassination since the beginning of
this war okay let's talk a little bit
more about Muhammad if Israel has been
after him for quite a while now for
quite a while now tell us who he is and
why he so
important yes so it has been said that
uh he actually survived a number of
assassination attempts before five or
six times some people would even say
seven times so so this is the eighth
time that Israel sted to assassinate him
uh he had a long of course uh um history
with Israel military and has been um the
de facto at least chief the military
chief of the Kasam brigades the the
Hamas military wing and that's why
Israel is after him it's not only about
the October 7th attack he obviously was
one of the masterminds but also for
future purposes uh when we talk about
hamas's possible strategic
Rehabilitation Muhammad would have
played a key u element there so now
again if he was actually killed then
this is a huge uh slap for him we can
call this way belue just quickly if you
don't mind ceasefire talks are still
taking place in katar and Egypt what's
Netanyahu had to say about
that well first of all we had to update
that D Bara the head of the Mad will
travel to Doha this week again so the
ceasefire talks are continuing there has
been some worrying that this attack
could actually lead to some um
sabotaging of the talks but the
estimation in Israel that could be a
tactical just you know announcing that
for a few days there will be no
negotiations but that will not
eventually affect the negotiations so we
We are continuing and watching that okay
journalist balik sadine thank you so
much for your
reporting thank
you professor of law Michael link of
Western University in Ontario is a
former un special rur for the
Palestinian territories he told me about
the legal implications of the strike
um international law is very clear that
during a combat uh Zone um that the
attacking armies have to distinguish
very clearly between combatants and
civilians as your target um and this has
been a running theme throughout the nine
months uh of this particular War where
Israel claims that it's shooting at
targets that are only aimed at Hamas
militants or militants from other uh
Palestinian armed groups but where the
consequence has been thousands and
thousands of uh of Civilian deaths and
uh and injuries with respect to this um
and most leading human rights
organizations that have examined uh both
the Israeli claims and the facts that
they've been able to gather on the on
the ground have concluded that Israel
has been indiscriminate uh in its use of
military force resulting in these
thousands of Civilian deaths even Joe
Biden has said in several occasions that
Israel's attacks have been
indiscriminate looking at the other side
what about hamas's obligations is there
evidence of Palestinian civilians being
used by the militants as human
Shields yes look that's a claim that
Israel often makes um uh Hamas does
fight in a in a densely populated Urban
uh area um and it is obliged to try to
stay away from civilians or putting them
in harm but the fact that they are
fighting in a uh densely populated
civilian area does not uh excuse uh or
relieve the other Army in this case the
Israel Army from taking every precaution
uh to distinguish between civilian and
uh uh and combatant and we've seen I
guess what's happened today this is I
think the fifth straight day of missile
attacks that have resulted in
substantial uh Palestinian civilian
deaths uh where Israel has said it's
attacking militants but the consequence
has been this enormous death told among
civilians and Michael you mentioned the
word
consequences uh or consequence which uh
sets off a light bulb for me what will
the consequences of this war be for both
sides well one can only hope that
there's going to be a reckoning one day
for for the leadership of both sides um
in the heg we know that the um
prosecutor of the international criminal
court in May uh made application to uh
uh to the court itself for arrest
warrants for three senior Hamas leaders
and for the Israeli Prime Minister and
the Israeli defense minister um that has
yet those arrest warrants have yet to be
decided upon or issued by the court but
it's be it's it's a slow but necessary
first start in trying to bring some uh
issue of accountability uh to not only
this nine-month-old War but the to the
57 year-old occupation um the the issue
is and this has been repeated in a
number of United Nations reports that
there is a almost total impunity and a
lack of accountability with respect to
both Israel and Hamas uh in in the
various conflicts that have gone for the
last 15 years in particular in Gaza and
the UN has repeatedly said this has to
end and in the meantime the fighting
continues the deaths continue Michael
link from Western University in Canada
thank you very much for taking us
through
that thank you very much for having me
and our Jerusalem correspondent Tanya
Kramer joins us now Tanya good to see
you what more is the Israeli military
saying about this
strike well the Israeli military
basically says said it targeted what
they described as an area compound uh
with militants in it and where they had
intelligence at that time that Muhammad
Dave and another uh senior Commander
were there on the ground and another key
factor to carry out that strike for them
was that there appeared to be no uh
hostages uh around them now they have
they have not denied that this area was
in a so-called designated safer Zone uh
an extended safer Zone uh near in the
western part of KH Yunis where tens of
thousands of Palestinians are actually
uh Sheltering they also have released uh
some satellite imagery uh showing uh the
target but you can also see on that uh
uh on these photos that there are tents
and structures uh nearby and what we're
hearing there from eyewitnesses and also
of course those footage that's coming
there from uh on social media is what
people are saying there were several
plasts and it's believed that those
plasts also affect of course the
surrounding areas and what we've been
seeing uh during the course of the day
is people trying to rescue uh people
with their bare hands also carrying them
with cloth or carpets uh to the uh
nearby hospital the alasa hospital uh
Rescue Services they have said that they
are overwhelmed now after 9 months of
war that they have difficulties to take
in so many casualties now now Hamas has
said that 71 people were killed uh we
don't know the breakdown whether there
were any militants among them but over
300 people injured with probably still
injuries Rising so it's certainly not
that there is a safe zone for people
what many people have said for many
months now Natan at the beginning of
your answer you mentioned Muhammad daif
Israel has been after him for quite a
long time now tell us who is he and why
is he so important to them
well Muhammad Dave is a very uh somehow
elusive figure and and Israel has tried
for many many years to assassinate him
actually he is uh the number two uh of
Gaza militants the head of the military
Wing the Kasam prades but also number
two after Yahya Sina that Israel is also
uh trying uh to get and he is as you
heard in the report considered one of
the architects of October but also
Israel sees him for many years behind
many of the attacks that were carried
out by Hamas for many years and it's so
elusive that there's even no real photo
or photo that's undated so many people
don't even know uh what he actually uh
looks like right now Hamas officials
have denied that any of their leaders
was killed or targeted and they have
said uh this is just an excuse for yet
another Massacre as they put it so they
the Army has said they are still
verifying so it might take some time
until we know whether they confirm that
they targeted him but whether we know
whether he was killed our Jerusalem
correspondent Tanya Kramer there Tanya
thank you